NeoWiki exposes a programmable surface: a graph database, parser functions, a Lua library, special pages, and a REST API. This page demonstrates each, showing the wikitext source alongside the rendered result.

== Browse ==

* [[Special:Schemas]]: all schemas
* [[Special:Layouts]]: all layouts
* [[Special:Mappings]]: all ontology mappings
* [[Special:NeoJson|Special:NeoJson/&lt;subject id&gt;]]: view any subject as JSON

== Query the graph ==

The <code><nowiki>{{#cypher_raw}}</nowiki></code> parser function runs a Cypher query and returns the raw JSON.

Source:

<syntaxhighlight lang="mediawiki">
{{#cypher_raw:MATCH (m:Museum) RETURN m.name AS name, m.`Annual visitors` AS visitors ORDER BY visitors DESC LIMIT 5}}
</syntaxhighlight>

Result:

{{#cypher_raw:MATCH (m:Museum) RETURN m.name AS name, m.`Annual visitors` AS visitors ORDER BY visitors DESC LIMIT 5}}

{{#ifexist:SPARQL queries|This wiki also projects its structured data to RDF, queryable with SPARQL: see [[SPARQL queries]].}}

== Read values in wikitext ==

The <code><nowiki>{{#neowiki_value}}</nowiki></code> parser function reads a single property from a subject on a page.

Source:

<syntaxhighlight lang="mediawiki">
{{#neowiki_value:Annual visitors|page=Rijksmuseum}}
</syntaxhighlight>

Result: {{#neowiki_value:Annual visitors|page=Rijksmuseum}}

Source:

<syntaxhighlight lang="mediawiki">
{{#neowiki_value:Founded at|page=ACME Inc}}
</syntaxhighlight>

Result: {{#neowiki_value:Founded at|page=ACME Inc}}

== Read values in Lua ==

The <code>mw.neowiki</code> Lua library exposes structured data to your Scribunto modules. The example below reads a single property and runs a Cypher query.

[[Module:LuaExample]]:

<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local p = {}
local nw = require( 'mw.neowiki' )

function p.foundedYear( frame )
	local year = nw.getValue( 'Founded', { page = frame.args[1] } )
	return tostring( year or '' )
end

function p.oldestMuseums( frame )
	local rows = nw.query(
		'MATCH (m:Museum) RETURN m.name AS name, m.Founded AS year ORDER BY year LIMIT 3'
	)

	local list = {}
	for _, row in ipairs( rows ) do
		list[#list + 1] = '* ' .. row.name .. ' (' .. row.year .. ')'
	end
	return table.concat( list, '\n' )
end

return p
</syntaxhighlight>

Invoke it from wikitext:

<syntaxhighlight lang="mediawiki">
{{#invoke:LuaExample|foundedYear|Rijksmuseum}}

{{#invoke:LuaExample|oldestMuseums}}
</syntaxhighlight>

Result:

Rijksmuseum was founded in {{#invoke:LuaExample|foundedYear|Rijksmuseum}}.

Oldest museums in this demo:

{{#invoke:LuaExample|oldestMuseums}}

For the full library reference, see the [https://github.com/ProfessionalWiki/NeoWiki/blob/master/docs/authoring/lua-api.md Lua API documentation].

== Reactive UI ==

NeoWiki components embed in pages as reactive UIs that update without a page reload. See [[Subject views]] for the same Sandbox subject in three layouts, with edits propagating between them.

== REST API ==

NeoWiki exposes a REST API for reading and writing structured data. The OpenAPI 3.0 spec is auto-generated:

* OpenAPI spec: <code>[{{SERVER}}{{SCRIPTPATH}}/rest.php/specs/v0/module/- /rest.php/specs/v0/module/-]</code>
* Module discovery: <code>[{{SERVER}}{{SCRIPTPATH}}/rest.php/specs/v0/discovery /rest.php/specs/v0/discovery]</code>

Representative read endpoints:

* <code>GET /neowiki/v0/subject/{subjectId}</code>
* <code>GET /neowiki/v0/schema/{schemaName}</code>

For full endpoint documentation, see the OpenAPI spec above.
